CIZAUSKAS: Mr. Bates, when I was reading through all of your crimes, I was struck by the fact that it's all women victims. Have you, through the years and through your work with your therapist, come to figure out why you were offending against women specifically?
BATES: Yes -- sorry about that, people were trying to come in. Um, what it is is I was raised solely by my father. My mother left us when we was little and she became uh an addict of heroin and I came out addicted to heroin. I was a baby also and um she did a life of prostitution and so much other stuff and I would see her being in the urban community. I couldn't underlook and seeing that and I I think that played a pivotal role in my life as growing up, seeing that it was a disdain and it was something that I had to get over and understand that you know you can't let that manifest or be who you're gonna be because that's the choice and path that she chose. You know, and right now I'm married for two years and I have three beautiful stepchildren and prior to that I was married for 11 years and I have a 15-year-old daughter. So I think that commitment to the person that I'm with is the most prominent thing in my life -- understanding that this woman that I have is precious like my daughters. I have five of them and I would hate for anything to happen to them in that you know in that effect.
CIZAUSKAS: Is your mother still alive now?
BATES: No, my mother unfortunately died of AIDS. So I lost her and I lost my father.
CIZAUSKAS: Before she passed -- were you ever able to reconcile that situation?
BATES: I did. I talked to my mother. She was in a nursing home at that specific time and I let her know how it affected me. I let her know and um -- you know my mother -- when I did go to that nursing home, she showed me that she did love me.
CIZAUSKAS: So, do you feel like you forgave her during that conversation?
BATES: Oh, man. I forgave my mother a long time ago, but in that conversation, I just learned to respect and love her even more.
CIZAUSKAS: Reading these assaults -- they're serious. One of these, I don't know if you've read them recently, but it says you punched a female in the back of the head five to six times. They're serious incidents. I know they happened a long time ago, but it's very concerning, you know.
BATES: I can understand. I can understand.
CIZAUSKAS: But I do hear the change in your voice and I appreciate what you're doing with the Masons and running a small business. Do you hire any employees?
BATES: Right now I'm privatized because unfortunately a couple years ago they came into my barber shop and held me at gunpoint. Five people. So I'm a little more paranoid than anything and I don't want the bad company that comes in the shop. I'm all right just being by myself, you know. I do train people though. I've trained a couple barbers who went on to be successful barbers and run their own barber shop. So I can say that I can take some credit for their success.
CIZAUSKAS: The reason I ask is we do hear a lot of people who are incarcerated that want to become a barber and look for people like yourself to help train them. I would hope that if you have that opportunity you continue to do that.
BATES: My doors is always open.
CHAIR: Mr. Bates, listening to you talk about your mom, her life struggles, her inability to parent, and her addiction made me think of the experiences of a lot of women who endure victimization, especially sex crimes. The trauma, the degradation, the damage to one's self-esteem. Do you think your mom was a survivor?
BATES: You know what? Unfortunately, I didn't have those intimate moments with her enough to extrapolate that. But I can say she did suffer some trauma. It had to be something that was post-traumatic that led her to that path.
CHAIR: So, what do you think the impact of the sexual assault you committed had on the young woman?
BATES: I can just imagine -- it had to be devastating. It was not nothing easy to just get past and um I really truly apologize for any actions of my —
CHAIR: No, I do read in your application the level of responsibility that you accept. Oftentimes, years later, perpetrators are reluctant to admit force and paint a different picture. You didn't do that. You were upfront with the fact that this was against her will, that she had tried to get you to stop. So I would add to your understanding of what you put her through -- probably trauma, fear, fear of men. This was a situation where she was visiting her friends and probably thought she was in a safe place and you showed her different, and she resisted and you didn't care. And so that feeling of perhaps not being able to take care of oneself and avoid being violated is a profound thing to carry around through one's life because you're on heightened alert, you have anxiety, you feel the stress of the memory -- physical and emotional -- of the victimization. I just wanted to add that to your understanding, especially given what your mom went through and the fact that you have, as you said, five daughters that you've raised.
CHAIR: Is there any objection with Mr. Bates?
CIZAUSKAS: No objection.
PALMIERI: No objection.
