CHAIR: Mr. Feliciano, you left the scene in the 2019 disorderly conduct and threatening -- because the victim called the police.
FELICIANO: 2018, I think, right?
CHAIR: The conviction is 2019. You were intoxicated. You threatened to get a bat and then a knife to use against the victim.
FELICIANO: Yeah. I don't —
CHAIR: That's why she called the police and that's why you left the scene. Not because you had taken a program and it taught you to take a time out when the situation got heated. You'd already threatened her.
FELICIANO: Yeah. I had left before I even knew she called the police. I didn't know that she had called the police.
CHAIR: It says here that you fled after the victim called the police. This is a lot, sir. You refer to your crimes as mistakes, but these were choices that you made to victimize the person in your life that you were supposed to love and protect. Your physical acts of aggression -- you put your victim in a headlock, you hit your victim in the head, you were convicted of strangulation. We almost never see a 42-month sentence for strangulation, unfortunately. You had multiple convictions for threatening violence and with a coworker you struck that person with a motor vehicle. It's a lot. And the fact that you attribute so much of this to alcohol, and yet in answering my colleague's questions there is no actual sobriety practice you're maintaining -- that concerns me. It makes me worried that you might not have a real handle on your problem with alcohol. Why do you think alcohol became a problem for you?
FELICIANO: Honestly, growing up, I seen uh domestic violence and my dad drinking alcohol and abusing my mom almost on a daily basis. I'm not sitting here pointing fingers. I take responsibility for my actions, but that's maybe where it came from. And I know in some of the classes they say that if one of your parents was a bad alcoholic or domestic abuser, there's a very good chance that you might come up and do the same. Like I said, I take responsibility, but this is stuff that was said. I don't -- I'm not sure -- but maybe that could be why.
CHAIR: Well, tragically, you have gone on to repeat exactly what you experienced with your father. The 2018 incident -- you were trying to protect your mother from him.
FELICIANO: Yeah.
CHAIR: How old are your children now?
FELICIANO: Uh, 17 -- I mean 16 and seven.
CHAIR: I sincerely hope there isn't a point in time where your sons or children have to intervene to protect their mother. I think you have some more work to do. And the fact that you don't really understand what is behind your abuse of alcohol -- yet you attribute your criminal acts to the alcohol -- is concerning to me. Sir, did you listen to the pre-screen that we did last month?
FELICIANO: Um, no. I didn't -- I actually didn't get the email for some reason till last week. I had a call. I didn't realize —
CHAIR: You were told by the parole officer.
FELICIANO: Oh, that. Yeah, that. Okay, screen —
CHAIR: We brought you to this hearing by majority vote because we wanted to give you a chance to explain further, and I'm not feeling confident in the explanation that I've heard today, but I'll listen to what my colleagues have to say.
CIZAUSKAS: I think we have victim input.
CHAIR: Okay. Yes, we do. Thank you.
OVS: Good afternoon board members. I do have a statement and it reads as follows. I'm writing in support of the request for a pardon for Luis A. Feliciano Jr. Luis has worked tirelessly to turn his life around and become a positive role model for his two sons. Since his last conviction, he has remained alcohol free. He has taken full responsibility for his actions and demonstrated genuine remorse and growth. He has dedicated himself to his career as a licensed plumber, is actively involved in his sons' sports, and has focused on his favorite hobby of fishing. I have witnessed firsthand his determination to change and his commitment to his family. Despite his progress, the lasting impact of his record continues to create barriers that limit his career advancement. Granting him this pardon will not only recognize his rehabilitation but will allow him to move forward building a better future for himself and our family. Thank you.
CIZAUSKAS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate the victim's input and appreciate that Mr. Feliciano takes responsibility. He sounds like he's doing better. However, from 2009 to 2018 he was not arrested -- a nine-year span. We're only six years away from his last conviction. And I do have some concerns. He had four unsatisfactory terms of probation and there are repetitive domestic violence cases. I would have liked to have seen more from him given the short period of time in the community. So for me today I'm not in support of this pardon.
CHAIR: Okay. I agree. Are you okay with that?
CIZAUSKAS: Yes.
CHAIR: Miss Palmieri.
PALMIERI: So, I hear what my colleagues have to say, but I was in favor of granting Mr. Feliciano's pardon application today. I do take note of the victim statement. I think she knows better than probably anybody else what's happening with Mr. Feliciano and their relationship, as she is the victim of just about all his offenses. I note that since the last arrest he's gone on to become a plumber, developed a career, maintained sobriety since 2018. I hear my colleague who would like to see more support in the community -- although people maintain sobriety in different ways, it sounds like he has the support of his family and different activities. I think his failures on probation go back to the beginning, to the 2008–2009 portions. He completed the explore program and seems to have benefited. So I was in favor of granting his pardon and gave great weight to the victim's statement today.
