CHAIR: Karen Davis -- can you please state your name for the record?
DAVIS: Hi, yes, Karen Davis.
CHAIR: Did you have a brief statement you wanted to make or can the panel proceed with questions?
DAVIS: Um, I did. I just wanna thank the panel for considering my application for a pardon um and for a pardon for the charges of assault risk of injury and violation of probation which I take full accountability and responsibility for because of course um —
PALMIERI: We read all that. Okay, Miss Davis. So I see that you've been off probation now for about six years, since 2019. Um, that was for your risk of injury. You did have a violation also associated um with the second assault. Seems to me as though you did all the steps because I read a note that -- the children, there was a recommendation they were not concerned, and the children were in your home. Um, that there were some home services involved to sort of bridge those gaps. Am I right?
DAVIS: There were -- the home services was not recommended. It was given to us as a resource and I took it.
PALMIERI: Yes. Okay. I -- I misspoke because I do have a note that it was a self-referral. So it was recommended —
DAVIS: Something that, you know, someone -- they gave us resources by the ending of, you know, them saying you were going to close it out, and I took the resources for the in-home therapy.
PALMIERI: Okay. Tell me why you took those services. Some people might just look to be all done with it and be gone. Why did you choose to accept the opportunity?
DAVIS: Because the way that I grew up, um, growing up, therapy wasn't one of those things that was an avenue if you needed it. Um, and I didn't want to repeat the cycle. I believe that therapy helped in uh in so many different ways as far as like communication, then stress management, and that's just really my daughter and not hearing each other out. And I feel that it really works for us. I grew up in an era where what happens in your home stays in your home unfortunately. But actually was positive and very helpful.
PALMIERI: Good. And did you do it with your child as well, with your family?
DAVIS: Yes. My daughter and I did it together as well as we did it separately.
PALMIERI: Okay. And I note that you also took anger management. Was that as a result of the assault second or was that part of the risk of injury?
DAVIS: I believe it was a part of the assault second.
PALMIERI: All right. And that assault second -- the people you were involved with, do you ever see them anymore?
DAVIS: No. The end result is I had to -- I took my daughter and we moved and I have not since been in that area.
PALMIERI: Okay. I mean that's a serious offense. It involved a stabbing. Okay. And your daughter wrote a letter for today. All right. Thank you, Miss Davis. I have nothing further.
CIZAUSKAS: Miss Davis, it looks like alcohol played a role in both of these um offenses. Is that right?
DAVIS: Yes.
CIZAUSKAS: And then I saw it says that your current alcohol use is limited and infrequent. Can you just describe what that's about?
DAVIS: Um, only if I like go out special occasions, which I'm very -- I'm not ever really away from home unless it's for work or school. But it's social, not every day.
CIZAUSKAS: All right. And I also see you've done some volunteer work at your church. Is that right?
DAVIS: I'm a member of that church and have been a member since 2013. My pastor —
CIZAUSKAS: What kinds of volunteer work? What kinds of things do you do there?
DAVIS: Just a part of the service coordination. Just —
CIZAUSKAS: Do you guys do any community outreach through the church?
DAVIS: I have not -- I have not done any just like volunteering where they have events. Mainly school and work and I tutor my son.
CIZAUSKAS: Okay. All right, that's all I have. Thank you.
