CIZAUSKAS: I understand you have not spoken to the victim in 30 years. Is that still correct?
LORENZE: Correct. Yes, sir.
CIZAUSKAS: And you've kind of respected their wishes as far as that goes. Have you ever had an opportunity to apologize?
LORENZE: No, sir. I've respected the fact that um, the ball is really in her court with that. And I didn't want to -- uh I didn't want to put that on her. I mean, it's not her responsibility to accept my apology. And I realized that there are times when someone comes to you with an apology and you feel obligated to accept it or it puts a lot on them. And I just -- I didn't want to do that to her. I'd done enough. I put her through enough.
CIZAUSKAS: Well, I mean, you certainly could say something today. She -- I don't know if she's watching or not -- but there's certainly been some contact with the victim.
LORENZE: Yeah. I would -- I would like to do that. I really would. I just realize it's up to her to decide when and where and under what conditions she wants to do that. I don't want to surprise her or put any more onus on her to deal with me than -- it really needs to be on her terms and I respect that.
CIZAUSKAS: Okay. What do you think she's experienced over the years as a result of what happened?
LORENZE: Imagining that it was a horrible way to lose trust at such an early age -- and that is not something that you just learn. I think it has a cascade of effects. Depression, anxiety, fear, insecurity -- it's a great way to undermine someone's foundational sense of who they are and how they function. I can't begin to list all the ways it could have hurt her, but I know the damage is profound.
CIZAUSKAS: One of the things that really stood out in your application is your understanding that it's not your sister's job to forgive you. I think that's pretty powerful -- that you are not putting that on her. You have to go on, live your life, make amends to the best of your ability, give back as you've described -- but not putting anything more on her. I thought that was um respectful. So, is your end goal law school?
LORENZE: Uh, tentatively, yes. I know that's a bit ambitious. I don't want to get ahead of myself. But I think the experience I've had in the legal system and my empathy towards what people go through in this situation could be invaluable.
PALMIERI: I have no questions. Thank you.
CHAIR: Okay. We're going to turn the hearing over to the Office of Victim Services.
OVS: This office spoke with the victim this morning. She stated yes, she still wanted to participate, and indicated she had already sent her statement. We informed her it was not received and asked her to resend. She stated she would. However, we have not received her email. After learning that the victim sent her statement directly to the applicant's attorney, it is this office's understanding that the victim has elected her to read the statement on her behalf instead of this office. A text message was sent to confirm this and we have not heard back otherwise. Because this statement was not sent directly to this office, the Office of Victim Services will not be representing the victim in today's hearing.
CHAIR: Okay. That's a complicating factor for sure. Are my panel members comfortable with having Mr. Lorenze's attorney read what she's representing came from the victim?
PALMIERI: I'd continue the case.
CIZAUSKAS: Mr. Lorenze's attorney is an officer of the court. If she believes the statement is legitimate and represents the facts as the victim wants them represented, I would be okay with her reading it.
PALMIERI: As would I, based on the Office of Victim Services at least having some general contact about the fact that there is a statement.
CHAIR: Mr. Lorenze, is your attorney still with you?
LORENZE: Uh, yes, she is.
ATTORNEY: Yes, I am.
ATTORNEY: I do just want to clarify: this letter was sent from the victim to the victim's mother. The mother then sent it to Mr. Lorenze, who provided it to me. So I did not get it directly from the victim herself. It went through a couple of channels. If the board is still okay with me moving forward, I do have it.
CHAIR: Do you have reason to believe its integrity?
ATTORNEY: I believe that it is accurate and it came from the victim herself.
CHAIR: Authentically?
ATTORNEY: Authentic. Yes.
CHAIR: Okay, please go ahead.
ATTORNEY: [Reads letter] Good morning. I received a letter last week notifying me about Craig's proceeding. I have not seen or spoken to Craig in 30 years, but have indirect knowledge through our parents. I have been turning over the matter privately for the past week. Yesterday morning, I spoke with our mother at some length. I asked pertinent questions, not inviting any sort of persuasion, focusing specifically on what sort of danger, if any, Craig might present to myself or society. After much consideration, using my own experience and not any idealistic notions or personal goals about family harmony, it is my personal conclusion that Craig will benefit from this pardon and so will the court system in not subjecting him to such intense scrutiny after 30 years. I am adding my thoughts to personally recommend a pardon -- not as a shortcut for family harmony, but based on deep knowledge of Craig's general ability to function. Most significantly, I do not think a pardon would lead to danger to people around him or to myself. The intense scrutiny of the justice system was something that over the last three decades has kept any further harm from occurring, I think, including to Craig himself. I recommend the pardon for reasons unrelated to idealistic notions of second chances or family harmony. Please overlook the extreme, stilted, and awkward language of this letter. This has been something I have been wrestling with over the last week. With all sincerity, his sister.
CHAIR: Thank you very much. I'm sure, Mr. Lorenze, that act of grace is not lost on you.
LORENZE: No, it's not.
CHAIR: And you do appreciate the parameters she offers it in.
LORENZE: Absolutely.
CIZAUSKAS: No objection.
PALMIERI: No objection.
